Now, let's talk about the deaf and the hard of hearing. Did you know that there are 430 million people on earth, that's almost half a billion people, who are hearing impaired, among which 70 million are fully deaf? About half of them have completely opted out of the labor market or are unemployed. Yet, there are extraordinary geniuses in this community as well, including Ludwig van Beethoven, the most, or one of the most, respected music composers of all time, while being fully deaf. Nomenclature-wise, do we say hearing-impaired or deaf or hard of hearing? The preference is deaf or hard of hearing, for most people. However, hearing-impaired is fine as well, but when I'm deaf I'd rather say, hey, I am deaf, or I have low hearing, then I'm hearing impaired. But the most important thing is to use either term. The most important thing is to not refrain from communicating with someone who's deaf because of fear of not being educated enough. The most important thing is not to refrain from speaking to someone who's deaf or hearing impaired because we're not educated enough or we just don't have the courage to communicate. Include them. The causes could be present at birth, old age, noise-induced, be careful when going to clubs and subjecting yourself to very loud noises and music, head injuries, medications like chemo and antibiotics, diseases like meningitis or otislerosis. The assistive technologies are hearing aids, which amplify sound, sign language, that is a natural language in order to communicate with a deaf person, lip reading, subtitles, and interpretive services. What jobs can they do? They can do pretty much all jobs. Maybe some jobs that may be difficult for deaf people that require a lot of verbal communication or hearing alarms, but besides that, they can do just about any job. You've got Tamara Hiller, who's a partner at a law firm. You've got Tamara Hiller, who's a partner at a law firm. You've got Thomas Edison, who's invented the light bulb and is just one of the world's biggest inventors of all time. Haben Girma, again, she's both blind and deaf, author and lawyer. Ludwig van Beethoven, Dame Evelyn Glennie, who's a percussionist, and Marlee Martins, who's an Oscar-winning actress. One is communication barriers, obvious. It's difficult to communicate with hearing people, and therefore some deaf people will then drop off at schools, work activities, social activities, and they just can't cope. Especially if it's a multi-person conversation, they can't focus on one person's lips because someone else is speaking. By the time they turn, they've lost the context of the conversation. So what you could do is to provide signed language interpreters. The second is... I'm going to go back to the first one, sorry. What you could do is provide sign language interpreters. The second is that they have a lack of access to equal information. Because the second is that they may have lack of access to information. So what you could do is to make information accessible in all formats. If you've got a video, upload it on YouTube. Closed captioning comes by default. Or provide closed captioning. Provide sign language interpretations when you're at a conference. Provide transcripts, as well so that someone can read them. Then there's also discrimination. Deaf people get discriminated in all areas of life. And so what you could do is get educated about deafness, take a training like this one. Skills and virtues. What skills and virtues? Now let's talk about the skills and the virtues that deaf and hard of hearing people have. Now let's talk about the... Boo! Now let's talk about the virtues that the deaf and the hard of hearing have. 1. Exceptional visual skills. They often have strong visual skills which give them a better understanding of what's happening around them. 2. Written communication. They may be able to write exceptionally well because that is the main mode of communication for them. Third is patience. They have a lot of patience because that is a necessity in that world in order to wait for access to information for example. Empathy. They are routinely... Empathy. They have to very... Empathy. Very often deaf people have to understand the challenges that most people face. You also have empathy and resilience as a by-product of having... that most people face. You also have empathy and resilience as a by-product of having... You also have empathy and strong resilience among the deaf and hard of hearing.