Now let's talk about the blind and the low vision, aka the visually impaired. Did you know... no, let's repeat this. Now let's talk about the blind and the low vision. Did you know that 4% of the world's population has a visual impairment? That's more than 300 million people on earth, and 70% of them are unemployed or severely underemployed. That means that they're taking jobs far beneath their capacities. Keep in mind, and it's sometimes a big bias that we have, that we might think that when someone is blind that they may not be up to par and we don't know what they can do. And the big reason why there is such a big unemployment is because we are uneducated. We don't know what the blind person can do. Have you ever interviewed a blind person? Have you ever worked with a blind person? Well, now we're going to uncover what it takes to be inclusive of the blind and the low vision. We don't realize that Dan Parker, for example, owns an Ascar team, and Dan Parker broke the speed record in a car as a blind person at 188 miles an hour, which is, I believe, more than 250 kilometers an hour. Here are famous blind individuals in all walks of life, and we made sure that we're looking at various fields of work to give you a sense that blind individuals can work in all fields, almost all fields. You've got Ronnie Kahn, who's an entrepreneur. David Patterson, who is the governor of New York. Haben Girma, she's both deaf and blind, and the very first person to graduate from Harvard Law School with both deafness and blindness. Richard Turner is a magician. Christine Ha is a world-renowned chef and author. You've got Stevie Wonder, singer, songwriter. Ray Charles, you've got Stevie Wonder, who's a singer and a songwriter, Ray Charles, Andrea Bocelli, all incredible musicians. Marla Runyan is a Paralympian. Eric Weinmayer is a professional mountaineer. You've got Sabriye Tenberkin, who's an entrepreneur. Ralph Brown is an entrepreneur and founder of the mobility devices. Molly Burke, world-renowned YouTube influencer. And Dan Parker, that we saw earlier, is a car racer and NASCAR team owner. and NASCAR team owner. So blindness and low vision. So visual impairment is broken down into blindness and low vision. It's preferable to call someone... Visual impairment is broken down into blindness and low vision. Blindness means complete loss of vision. The person may see some light, but for the most part it's unusable vision. Low vision means the sight is extremely limited. Technically, anyone with less than 20-20 vision is considered visually impaired, but for the purpose of what we're talking about, we're talking about extremely limited sight. Now, nomenclature, should I say visually... In terms of nomenclature, should I say blind and low vision, or should I say visually impaired? Blind and low vision. Visually impaired, there's the word impaired that may make... In visually impaired, there's the word impaired, which makes it sound like someone is not functioning, where in reality, they have one sense that they can't use, and so blindness is perfectly okay. Or I have low vision. I'm fully blind about low vision. Blindness comes through. The most important thing is not whether you're using this or that term. It's not to shy away from communicating with someone who is blind and interacting with them. They have more than enough isolation right now, so it's okay to take a chance and use either term. But, for the most part, blindness and low vision is preferable. Its causes are present at birth. Cataract, macular degeneration, glaucoma, refractive errors, diabetes. And the assistive technologies that a blind person uses are screen readers. That's text-to-speech. The main softwares are JAWS and NVDA, but most softwares, be it Apple, Google, or Microsoft's Office tools or browsers, come with built-in text-to-speech. Accessive technologies for people with low hearing, sorry, assistive technologies for people with low vision, are screen magnifiers, which Apple, Google, and most browsers already have, and most operating systems have, and most phones have as well, when you largen the font. But you also have ZoomText, Fusion, and SuperNova, that offers screen magnification. That's when you hit Command plus, plus, plus, plus, plus, and the font gets much larger. You also have refreshable Braille displays, but these are less common. What are the top three challenges that a blind or a person with low vision face? One is navigating the physical environment. I was with a colleague of mine, Jason. Jason Esrazen is from South Africa. He was 23 years old when he was driving and he got into a horrible car accident. He was fully sighted. He escaped with his life but lost his vision. After going through the tough part of it, accepting the fact that he can no longer see, he's enrolled in a clinical trial, and now he's completing the five-year clinical trial in California. This device is connected to a chip in his brain that bypasses the retina that allows him to see light. And he can start to see some light and some shadow and can make use of it when he puts on that camera. But Jason and I met up in Las Vegas at an Unleash conference in order to speak there to recruiters. But Jason and I met up for two days in Las Vegas at an Unleash conference in order to give a session. And I was accompanying him. Over there, I learned about how he navigates the physical space, be it from going from point A to point B, one session to another, going to the hotel room, where he was holding onto my elbow, and I was walking him through and describing everything around me. He had his walking stick, some would have their dog. And then once you get into a place where you're likely to walk around and maneuver, such as the hotel room, such as your office, your home, then he'd start by touching all the places around, building a spatial recognition and spatial vision of the area, memorizing it, and he'll be all set. And he was all set. After the first night, he woke up before me the next day, was able to go get to the... I'll skip that part. So when it comes to the physical environment at the office, a blind person would want to know where is their desk, where is the kitchen to heat their food, where do they go to the restroom, and how do they get in and out of the building. If you see a blind person, offer assistance with navigation, but offer first. And they may accept it or not. And if you want to make your workplace accessible, it's really quite easy. There are small things, and we'll talk about it under the accessibility portion, and it's much less expensive than you might think. And if you need any experts, feel free to contact us. The second is navigating digital interfaces. All the papers that we have are not accessible, they're not available in braille. You also have other screens, like ATMs, kiosks, that are not accessible. So what you want to do is you want to make your printed content available, as well as learn how to make your digital content accessible. What you want to do is make your printed content accessible and digital and your digital content accessible. We're going to show, and actually Jason's going to show in a short video, how to do just that in a short while. The third is getting a job. It's a big challenge for the person who's blind, not because they can't do things. They can do just about anything because they do get over their blindness thanks to the technology that exists, the assistive technologies they use, screen readers and screen magnifiers. But it's because employers don't know what they need to do in order to include them. And that is the cause for 200 million people being severely out of work, or taking menial jobs far less than their capacity. So realize that there are misconceptions and that this training is here to break these misconceptions and create more employment opportunities for the blind and the low vision. So what you want to do is just make the right accommodation and making your workplace accessible, starting from your job ad. What are the questions? Oh, there's a siren. Now hiring managers and recruiters ask themselves three questions. We've interviewed more than a hundred and we've summarized them down to the three most important questions. One is, how do they use the tools I use at the office? Two, how do I... The three questions are, how do they navigate the tools we use at the office? Email, calendar, Word, Excel, Zoom, Slack. Slack, and next, how do I make my workspace accessible? And third, what are accommodations that they may need? So first, let's give you a demo on how Jason uses the calendar and email. And here's where we show the video. Here's where we show the video. Next, here's how Jason uses Microsoft Excel. And third, here's how Jason navigates the internet. Now, how do I make my workspace accessible? Take a look at this video, because this doesn't just show you how Jason navigates through Microsoft Word, but it also shows you how to make Microsoft Word or your documents accessible. Google, Apple, Microsoft all have built-in accessibility features that make documents accessible. So what we'd ask from you is just to learn what they are and make your documents accessible. It's already there for you. Third is what accommodations should I provide? We're going to have a full section on reasonable accommodations for each community that we just talked about or we're going to be talking about, so that you can just have one checklist and then you can knock it out. But the main ones are braille materials, screen reading software, accommodations for travel, flexible work arrangements, anything that costs any money. Chances are the Department of Rehabilitation or government subsidies exist to cover for them. So employers are for the most part not out of pocket, even if they make some changes to their physical environment. There are also two exceptional resources, the Job Accommodation Network and the Department of Rehabilitation. They are free and actually give you lots of incentives and tax credits or reimbursements for expenses. So take advantage of them. Feel free to contact us and we can put you in touch, or we can even bring in a specialist to your office to help you with your accessibility needs. Now let's talk about the skills and the virtues that blind people and people with low vision are likely to possess. One is adaptability. Every single day is an adventure. When you wake up not seeing anything, and then you have to face the world, you have to adapt to every single situation all day, every day that comes your way. One example is most people don't realize, and I did not know, that blind people play baseball, and there's a global league for blind baseball called BEEP Baseball. Take a look at this video to see how these blind individuals are playing BEEP Baseball, and then try to extrapolate from everyday scenarios in order to realize how impressive it is to be able to hone in and build up this adaptability skill. Other incredible skills that blind and low vision people have are enhanced hearing, listening with excellent intent, improved memory, and patience and kindness. When I was with Jason, he was able to recall what was happening at the conference, who we met, and what every person said of us. We went to a bar and he told me, hey I smelled some burning. Oh it could be over there, the bartender is probably making a drink where they're burning something. I went there and I noticed that in fact he was right. He was super attentive and you could hear, his hearing was so enhanced. I also learned from him, and you probably realized that from the videos that we showed, that blind people on average are able to hear three times faster and far better than an average person. Imagine reading an audiobook at 3x the speed with three times the focus. How much more information can you retain and learn? For example, if your job requires research for troubleshooting. And most jobs do require that. That's such a huge skill. It's almost like an unfair advantage to hire blind people. Because they can take, as long as their work is accessible to them, you gain that superpower. And think about patience and kindness. As a blind person, you just have to listen and take it all in. Because you don't have a choice. So you're going to listen to a person all the way through. And how important is this? Not just for customer support and client success, but also for team building. When you're in a team and you've got one person who really wants to get their opinions across, and then you've got this other person who's able to listen to everyone and include everybody. who's able to listen to everyone and include everybody. How much better is it for inclusion within the team?